Here's a new network that we'll use to
investigate how sampling can be used to do inference.
In this network, we have four variables, they're all boolean.
Cloudy tells us if it's cloudy or not outside and that can have
an effect on whether the sprinklers are turned on and whether it's raining.
And those two variables, in turn,
have an effect on whether the grass gets wet.
Now, to do inference over this network using sampling,
we start off with a variable where all the parents are defined.
In this case, there's only one such variable, cloudy.
And its conditional probability table tells us that
the probability is 50 percent for cloudy and 50 percent for not cloudy.
And so we sample from that,
we generate a random number and,
let's say, it comes up with positive for cloudy.
Now that variable is defined,
we can choose another variable.
In this case, let's choose sprinkler.
And we look at the rows in the table for which cloudy,
the parent, is positive and we see,
we should sample with probability 10 percent of +S and 90 percent of -S. And so,
let's say, we do that sampling with
a random number generator and it comes up negative for sprinkler.
Now, let's jump over here,
look at the rain variable.
Again, the parent, cloudy, is positive.
So we're looking at this part of the table.
We get a 0.8 probability for rain being positive
and a 0.2 probability for rain being negative.
Let's say, we sample that randomly and it comes up rain is positive.
And now we're ready to sample the final variable.
And what I want you to do,
is tell me which of the rows of
this table should we be considering and tell me what's more likely.
Is it more likely that we have a +W or a -W?